2nd line docs (#1944)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/2nd-line.html.md

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-2ndline"
title: 2nd line
parent: "/manual.html"
layout: manual_layout
section: 2nd line
type: learn
last_reviewed_on: 2019-08-16
review_in: 3 months
---

2nd line has three main reponsibilities:

- Monitoring the state of the GOV.UK infrastructure
- Investigating and responding to technical bug reports
- Providing first line support to queries from data.gov.uk users

If you're new to 2nd line, read about our [working patterns, ceremonies and policies](/manual/welcome-to-2nd-line.html).

## Monitoring

We have a [2nd line dashboard][2nd-line-dashboard] showing a high level overview of the state of
the GOV.UK environments. You can also [install our Chrome extension][chrome-extension] if you want
a permanently visible overview. You will need to be on the [VPN](/manual/vpn.html) if accessing from home.

### Icinga

We use Icinga to monitor our platform and alert us when things go wrong. Many alerts have corresponding
documentation in these developer docs, detailing how to respond.

Record critical alerts that aren't easily solved to the [GOV.UK 2nd line Trello board][2nd-line-trello-board]

> to help inform the Platform Health and the GOV.UK AWS migration team. 2nd line should investigate these alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to help inform Platform Health and GOV.UK RE. 2nd line should investigate these alerts
```

when there is downtime - you do not necessarily have to fix them.

[Read more about Icinga](/manual/icinga.html).

### PagerDuty

Some alerts are urgent enough to warrant immediate attention, such as parts of the site becoming
unavailable or large quantities of error pages being served. We use [PagerDuty](https://governmentdigitalservice.pagerduty.com)

> to notify the primary and secondary engineers on 2nd line during office hours.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to notify the primary and secondary engineers on 2nd line during office hours (9:30am to 5:30pm), and on-call engineers outside of office hours.
```

> to escalate these alerts to the primary and secondary engineers on 2nd line during office hours.

Reviewer 3: Maybe say "to notify", rather than "to escalate", as I'm not sure what escalating means in this context?
